Good day, brothers and sisters.
Our next session will begin with a music video presentation.
This video shows the beauty of creation and the beauty of our worldwide brotherhood, both
of which bring glory to Jehovah.
Let's watch and listen.
Our opening song is an opportunity for each of us to give praise to Jehovah.
Let's sing song number two entitled Jehovah is Your Name.
Again, that's song number two.
When we examine the things Jehovah has made, we see his marvelous qualities.
But can we learn even more?
The following six-part symposium will show how meditating on creation can strengthen
our faith in Jehovah's promises.
Each speaker will introduce the next.
Brother Kenneth Flodin, a helper to the teaching committee, will present the first talk entitled,
whose creation to build your faith stars.
In each of the parts of this symposium, the speaker will help us to see not only the
wonder of creation, but also the thunder of creation.
We will hear Jehovah's words like thunder, loud and clear.
Please find Nehemiah 9.6 with me.
And notice the faith-strengthening effect that creation has on the angels above.
Nehemiah 9.6, you alone are Jehovah.
You made the heavens, yes, the heaven of the heavens and all their army, the earth and
all that is on it, the seas and all that is in them.
You preserve all of them alive and the army of the heavens are bowing down to you.
Well, that verse extolls Jehovah as the creator.
But did you notice the expression, the heaven of the heavens?
What is that?
Well, that refers to the complete extent of the physical heavens, the atmospheric heavens,
the heavens of outer space and at the top of the heavens outer space, that rim, that
is the heaven of the heavens, the highest heavens.
Now, when we look at the heavens, what do we see?
What do we feel?
Well, in that verse, did you notice it mentions first time the heavens and all their army.
That's referring to the physical army of the heavens, the stars, the planets, the galaxies.
Did you notice in the last sentence, there's another army of the heavens.
And that refers to the holy angels of God.
And just contemplating the physical creation, the angels are moved to bow down or worship
Jehovah, contemplating the creation can have a similar effect on us.
Now, each talk of this symposium will discuss how meditating on an aspect of creation
will build our faith in Jehovah's promises.
Let's watch a video about the stars.
And then we will have a faith-strengthening application to our resurrection hope.
Our sun is considered an average star, yet the energy from the sun that reaches the
earth is thousands of times the world's total energy use.
With our unated eyes, we might see about 3,000 stars on a dark night.
Many in a fuzzy band, the Milky Way Galaxy, where our sun is just one of, perhaps, 200
or 400 billion stars.
Astronomers think the Milky Way Galaxy is clustered together with around 100,000 large galaxies
in a massive structure called a supercluster.
That together with an estimated 2 trillion galaxies make up the known physical universe.
Templar stars spread over unfathomable distances, releasing immense amounts of energy may be
impossible to grasp for us, but not for Jehovah.
He counts the number of the stars, he calls all of them by name.
Our Lord is great and is mighty in power.
In just a two-minute video about the stars, we see the awesome wonder.
But do we hear the thunder?
Do we hear the clear, undeniable application from Jehovah our Creator?
I invite you to turn with me to Isaiah 4026, please.
What can we come to appreciate about Jehovah by pondering the magnitude and the magnificence
of the stars?
Well, in Isaiah 4026, Jehovah says, look at the stars.
He says, lift up your eyes to heaven and see.
Who has created these things?
The wonder.
It is the one who brings out their army by number.
He calls them all by name.
Because of his vast dynamic energy and his awe-inspiring power, not one of them is missing.
On the video we saw, it estimated that there are 2 trillion galaxies in outer space, each
with billions of stars.
So do the math.
How many names of inanimate objects does Jehovah have in his memory?
How many can he possibly contain?
But did you notice at the end of that verse, it says that not one of them are missing?
It is said that there's a billion trillion stars.
So I have to ask you, would Jehovah remember your name, your loved one's name, not one
of them is missing?
Not one star goes missing to Jehovah?
Well, how about our dead loved ones?
Did they go missing?
My favorite verse is when a faithful servant of Jehovah dies, our Romans 14, 7 through 9.
In verse 8, it says, if we live or if we die, we belong to Jehovah.
The status with Jehovah does not change at death.
That person did not go missing.
But what about those of us who have loved ones that at the time of their death, they had
not come to learn about or put faith in Jehovah?
What about that?
Well, think about this.
If Jehovah had the ability, the power to create those huge stars and galaxies, he can
recreate all, all those sleeping in the memorial tombs.
Find John 5, 28, and 29.
Let's verify that so that all of us, whether the dead loved one was previously a faithful
witness or not, all of us can entertain the hope of the resurrection.
John 5, 28, and 29 did not be amazed at this.
For the hour is coming in which all, all those in the memorial tombs will hear his voice
and come out.
Those who did good things to a resurrection of life and those who practiced, you see even
vile things to a resurrection of judgment.
Yes, they'll be restored to life and they'll have the opportunity to come to love the
one who gifted them with a miracle of a resurrection.
Now, in our video, right at the end, on screen, there was a quotation of Psalm 147, 4 and
5.
In verse 4, it says that Jehovah counts all the stars, the billion trillions or more of
them.
It says he named each one the billion or trillion of them.
That is amazing indeed.
I would like to learn another lesson from the book of Job.
Joe 14, please, we're going to reverse 13 and 15.
When a star burns out, it does not go missing to Jehovah.
No doubt he remembers its name, but he is not motivated to resurrect that star back to
light so that it can again twinkle in a dark night sky.
But what about humans?
We were created in the image of Jehovah God and his son, Christ Jesus, Joe 14, 13.
Job says, Oh, that in the grave, you would conceal me, that you would hide me until your
anger passes by, that you would set a time limit for me and remember me.
In verse 14, it's obviously talking about the resurrection, but would Job in effect
just become a burned out star?
No.
Unlike a burned out star, Jehovah yearns he longs to call back each human to life so that
we can again see that star like twinkle in their eyes.
And now verse 15, you, that's Jehovah, we'll call and I will answer you.
You see from the grave, I will answer you.
You belong for the work of your hands, but Jehovah has the memory to bring back people.
He has the power to bring back people and he has the longing to bring back people to life.
Friends, observe the stars, have faith that you will see your resurrected loved ones.
And now brother Pat LaFranca, a helper to the personnel committee, will continue this
symposium with his talk, use creation to build your faith, oceans.
Have you ever stood on the ocean shore, enjoying the salt spray, watching the breakers dash
against the rocks, or run up onto the sandy beach in them withdrawal?
Many enjoy spending hours at the ocean.
You never stop marveling at its beauty and its immense size.
On the other hand, many fear the destructive power of the ocean.
Like other natural forces, the ocean can act like a powerful giant that sometimes goes
on a rampage.
What can man do to stop the wall of water of a tsunami from approaching the coastline?
The power of storm waves is almost unbelievable.
They have been known to throw boulders weighing 7,000 pounds over a wall 20 feet high.
Can we trust that Jehovah in the future will bring the ocean and other natural forces
into perfect balance?
In the following video, note how the oceans give loud and clear evidence of Jehovah's
wisdom and power.
Millions of cubic meters of water circulates continually around our planet.
Near the poles, water that is colder, saltier, and denser sinks.
Creating a flow almost 100 times that of the Amazon River.
This drives a massive circulation of water that may take 1,000 years to complete.
The global ocean conveyor belt.
This enormous system distributes heat, which helps to stabilize the weather and transports
great quantities of nutrients around the world.
So that life may flourish in abundance.
Jehovah set these mechanisms in motion and understands them perfectly.
You rule over the raging of the sea when its waves surge you come.
As we saw in our video, the oceans are essential to sustain life on the earth.
Sadly, however, greedy men have trashed them with pollution.
Global warming has caused ocean levels to rise, threatening coastal areas.
Scientists are concerned that the natural forces are so out of balance that soon the planet
will no longer sustain life.
Yet friends, if Jehovah had the wisdom and power to create the earth's oceans, when his
time comes to bring all natural forces back into perfect balance, he can certainly cause
us to live in harmony with them.
Though the oceans might appear to be uncontrollable,
we know that Jehovah is vastly more powerful.
Note how Psalm 93-4 describes his power.
Psalm 93-4.
Above the sound of many waters, mightier than the breaking waves of the sea, Jehovah
is majestic in the heights.
Yes, the great sea may lift up its powerful waves to heaven, but it is no match for
our majestic Almighty God.
Jehovah's powerful ability to perfectly control the oceans gives us great confidence that
he is also perfectly capable of protecting us, his people.
In Jeremiah 5.22, notice how Jehovah reminds his people of his power.
Jeremiah 5.22.
Do you not fear me, Declare's Jehovah?
Should you not tremble before me?
It is I who place the sand as the boundary for the sea.
A permanent regulation that it cannot pass over, although its waves toss, they cannot prevail,
although they roar, they still cannot pass beyond it.
Yes, Almighty God placed the sand as the boundary for the sea.
So when its furious waves pound against sand, the sand absorbs their impact and the
force vanishes.
Since Jehovah controls the literal roaring sea from going beyond his boundaries, can he
not also protect his people when the wicked sea of humanity threatens us with his violent
storms?
Jehovah's control over vast waters was well demonstrated when he protected the Israelites by allowing
them to cross the Red Sea on dry land.
Now the Red Sea has an average depth of over 1,600 feet.
It is estimated that at the point where the Israelites crossed it, the depth of the sea
was as much as 50 feet.
Imagine being in an Israelite, walking through this corridor with walls of water on each side
of you, some 50 feet high.
And then Jehovah used those same walls of water to collapse, drowning their enemies, the
Egyptians.
Yes, Jehovah controlled those vast waters to deliver an entire nation from a world power.
And do you recall the account in Mark chapter 4 verses 37 to 39 when God empowered his
son Jesus to control the sea and the wind?
When Jesus and the disciples were crossing the sea of Galilee in a boat, a great wind storm
caused the sea to rage and it threatened to fill up their boat.
But did Jesus do?
He commanded the wind and the sea with the words hush, be quiet and the raging wind and
sea calm down.
So on this occasion, Jesus showed what He will do as King of God's kingdom during the millennium.
He will control forces of nature.
There will be no need to fear the ocean.
In recent years, disastrous storms are becoming more frequent and severe.
What used to be considered extreme, massive floods, killer droughts and monstrous snowstorms
is the new normal.
Many experts now put the blame on human activity that has affected the oceans and the climate.
So yes, men continue to ruin their today, but here's the good news.
During the millennium, by means of his kingdom, our wise creator will undo all the damage
done by humans.
Everything will function in harmony with Jehovah's principles.
And we will learn how to properly care for this beautiful planet.
And as we do, everything will be brought back into proper balance, including the climate
and the oceans.
While some men today fear that the earth will be destroyed due to man's abuse, Jehovah
gives us this comforting promise at Psalm 104 and verse 5.
Psalm 104 and verse 5.
He has established the earth on His foundations.
It will not be moved from its place forever and ever.
Yes, the beautiful, deep and dark blue ocean will roll on forever.
The creator will make sure of that.
By observing the oceans, meditating on what we see, we can build our faith that soon
we will enjoy Jehovah's creation forever without fear.
Brother James Mance, a helper to the writing committee, will now present the next talk
of this symposium, use creation to build your faith, forests.
What would we do without forest?
Forests help to sustain our supply of fresh water.
They purify the air, and forests convert carbon dioxide into life-sustaining oxygen.
Yes, forests are vital to our existence.
It's scientists warn that we're in danger of losing this precious resource.
This causes some people to wonder whether God cares about what's happening to the forest.
We may even ask, will the loss of forest affect God's ability to fulfill His promise to make
the earth a paradise?
The simple answer to that question is absolutely not.
Jehovah has everything under control.
Please watch the following video.
It will strengthen your faith in the designer of the forest.
Trees can grow very strong and withstand powerful forces.
But if they didn't decompose after they die, trees and leaves would pile up with their
nutrients locked away inside.
Yet they do decompose.
How?
Most animals cannot eat fallen wood and leaves.
But fungi can.
They break down the dead plant tissues, making them softer.
Beetles and termites bore through the wood exposing more surface area and spreading the
fungi inside.
Which soften it further so that other insects can enjoy the feast.
Earthworms aerate the soil and pull nutrients down where they can be used by other plants.
Decomposes have been called the unsung heroes of the natural world.
They recycle organic matter so that it is available to support new life.
Through this process, Jehovah made it possible for us to enjoy Earth's lush beauty, generation
after generation.
Let the fields and everything in them rejoice.
At the same time, let all the trees of the forest shout joyfully.
Amazing!
Will you ever look at a forest in the same way again?
Think about what the decomposition and recycling of organic matter means for us and our
future.
Those beetles, termites and earthworms, the unsung heroes of the natural world will keep
on doing their job throughout eternity.
Reflect for a moment.
If Jehovah had the wisdom to create forests that can replenish themselves, surely he knows
how to undo the damage that man has done to the Earth.
Jehovah hasn't revealed all the details of how he is going to restore the Earth, but
we can be confident that he will fulfill his promise to make all things new.
Please open your Bibles to Psalm 37 verses 10, 11 and 29.
The Scripture contains a promise regarding man and the Earth.
Psalm 37 verses 10, 11 and 29 reads,
Just a little while longer, and the wicked will be no more.
You will look at where they were, and they will not be there.
But the meek will possess the Earth, and they will find exquisite delight in the abundance
of peace.
The righteous will possess the Earth, and they will live forever on it.
How reassuring people who are righteous and meek will be on the Earth forever, and that
Earth will be a paradise.
But there are at least two requirements for Jehovah to accomplish this.
As already taken care of the first requirement, we saw proof of that in the video.
Jehovah created the forest with an amazing rejuvenation system.
So in spite of man's prolonged misuse of the forest, Jehovah has already put in place
the mechanism to undo all the damage that man has done.
Note the marvelous design of the forest, build your faith in Jehovah's promise of a paradise.
The second requirement to make the Earth a paradise is described in verse 10 of Psalm
37 that we just read.
There it says,
And the wicked will be no more.
Not only will Jehovah undo the damage that men have done, but he will also remove the
source of the problem.
Greedy men who exploit and misuse this precious resource will be gone.
Therefore, we have no reason to fear that humans will continue to ruin the Earth until
it reaches the point of no return.
Jehovah knows what is going on.
Please open your Bibles to Revelation chapter 11 and we'll read verse 18.
The Scripture assures us that Jehovah cares about our planet because it is his planet.
And it confirms that he is going to hold men accountable for their actions.
Revelation chapter 11 verse 18 says,
But the nations became wrathful and your own wrath came.
And the appointed time came for the dead to be judged and to reward your slaves the
prophets and the holy ones and those fearing your name, the small and the great.
And to bring to ruin those ruining the Earth.
Jehovah is not going to let wicked men ruin his beautiful creation.
Nothing can stop Jehovah from carrying out his purpose for the Earth.
Our examination of the forest has strengthened our faith that Jehovah will accomplish everything
that he has in mind to do.
The words of faithful Job reflect our conviction that that promise will come true.
As recorded at Job chapter 42 verse 2,
Job was moved to declare regarding Jehovah.
Now I know that you are able to do all things and that nothing you have in mind to do is
impossible for you.
What does Jehovah have in mind to do?
One thing is to transform the Earth into a paradise with rich, abundant forest.
Forests that will continue to help sustain our supply of fresh water, to purify our air,
and to convert carbon dioxide into oxygen.
The video that we just watched quoted Psalm 96 verse 12 which declares that the trees
of the forest shout joyfully by their very existence, forest, praise their Creator.
And we can add our joyful shouts of praise to those of the forest.
Therefore, may we continue to use creation to build our faith.
Because if we do that, we will see the restored, life-sustaining forest bring happiness to
perfect humans and praise to their Creator, Jehovah, forever.
Brother Len Myers, a helper to the writing committee, will now present the next talk of
this symposium.
Use creation to build your faith, wind, and water.
And we think of events that will soon happen, such as the Great Tribulation in Armageddon.
Wouldn't you agree that we need to build our faith now?
In fact, if you turn with me to Ezekiel, chapter 38, and you may want to put a marker there,
verses 14 and 15 describe the time when God's people will experience and all out assault
by those determined to destroy pure worship.
Verse 14 mentions that God, or as we know a coalition of nations, will come against God's
people.
And though, verse 18 states that on that day, Jehovah's great rage will flare up against
his enemies.
The question is, will you and I remain confident in Jehovah's promise to rescue his people?
We can build our faith by considering another aspect of creation, the awesome power of wind
and water.
These allow the following video to strengthen your faith.
Hale, though it is made of ice, it is very different from snow.
Hale usually forms in warm weather, when turbulent air produces thunderstorms with powerful
updrafts.
Those updrafts can pull a piece of dust or ice high into the cloud where water freezes
around it.
Each trip up into the cloud adds a layer of ice and weight.
Until it becomes a Hale stone that is heavy enough to fall, Hale storms can be powerfully
destructive.
One deadly storm dropped Hale stones weighing more than one kilogram each.
Jehovah used Hale to demonstrate his power and defend his people, such as during the
seventh plague against Egypt.
When Joshua fought the Amorites, Jehovah caused a great Hale storm and more Amorites died
from the Hale stones done in battle.
Hale is also mentioned among the elements Jehovah will use in the future against those
who attack his people.
Have you seen the storehouses of the Hale, which I have reserved for the day of battle
and war?
As the video showed, wind and water in the form of Hale are powerful and can at times
be very destructive.
For example, a report in a Wake magazine some years ago reported that at times humans
are hurt, even killed by Hale stones weighing as much as one and a half pounds and as big
as five inches in diameter.
That's larger than this ball.
And there are scientific reports of even larger Hale stones.
But as we know, Jehovah can use wind and water to fight for his people while he's the
source of these natural forces and he can control them perfectly.
Please turn with me to Psalm 147 and let's notice that together.
Psalm 147 will look at verses 17 and 18 for the assurance that Jehovah is the source
of these natural forces.
Psalm 147, 17, he hurls down his Hale stones like morsels of bread.
Who can withstand his cold?
He sends out his word and they melt.
He makes his wind blow and the waters flow.
Did you notice to whom these natural forces belong?
Verse 17 speaks of his Hale stones.
Verse 18 says he makes his wind blow.
Yes, Jehovah is the source and he can control them.
He proved this in the past.
Do you remember the examples given in the video?
One was the account in Joshua chapter 10 when the Israelites were fighting the Amorites.
Verse 11 states that while the Amorites were fleeing from Israel, Jehovah hurled great
Hale stones from the sky on them and they perished.
In fact, more died from the Hale than from the sword of the Israelites.
If Jehovah can create such powerful elements and control them, that should build our faith.
It should convince us that he'll be able to use these powerful elements in the future
when he defends his people at Armageddon.
The video partially quoted a scripture that emphasizes that point.
Let's read it together.
Job chapter 38, and notice with me verses 22 and 23.
Job 38, 22, have you entered the storehouses of the snow or have you seen the storehouses
of the Hale which I have reserved for the time of distress, for the day of battle and war?
Did you notice that Jehovah says he has storehouses of Hale reserved for the day of battle?
So on 135 verse 7 mentions storehouses of wind.
In these verses, Jehovah speaks of things he's reserved under his control for special purposes.
How can this knowledge of Jehovah's storehouses build our faith?
When we're attacked during the Great Tribulation by God's enemies, no matter how powerful
or threatening they may seem, they can't possibly survive Jehovah's anger.
For example, if we go back to Ezekiel chapter 38 and glance at verse 22, we see things
Jehovah will use against those enemies of pure worship.
Besides pestilence, fire, and sulfur, notice what else Jehovah will use in the middle
of the verse.
It says, I will reign down a torrential downpour and Hale stones.
As Jehovah will use water, he may use Hale stones of undisclosed size to destroy those
wicked humans.
Now during that time, will we need to fear the natural elements?
Not at all.
Second Peter chapter 2 verse 9 assures us, Jehovah knows how to rescue people of godly devotion
out of trial.
Jehovah will perfectly control the natural elements so his people are not harmed.
This knowledge about the awesome power of wind and water should make us powerful by faith.
It should build our faith not only in Jehovah's ability to protect us in the future, but
also in his protection now.
For instance, we have no reason to fear bands or threats from worldly governments.
The one who controls the storehouses of the wind and Hale is our helper.
According to Hebrews chapter 13 verse 6, we do not need to be afraid.
That's true now, and it will be true in the future when Jehovah brings the natural
elements at his disposal against our enemies.
Notice his assurance at the end of Ezekiel chapter 38, notice verse 23.
And I will certainly magnify myself and sanctify myself and make myself known before the
eyes of many nations, and they will have to know that I am Jehovah.
What a thrilling time that will be.
As these enemies are defeated, they will know that it is Jehovah God who is bringing destruction
upon them.
May our anticipation of that happy outcome and our study of creation build our faith
now as we confidently look forward to Jehovah's complete victory.
For the Robert Lucioni, a helper to the publishing committee will now present the next
talk of this symposium, use creation to build your faith, see creatures.
Are you struggling to provide for yourself or your family?
Many today lack the basic necessity such as food, clean water, adequate housing.
And this causes some to question whether God really cares about humans.
But as Jehovah's people, we are different.
We know that Jehovah cares for all of his creation.
But we all know that it is a test of our faith when things get difficult.
So the question is how can we build our faith so that we are strong and it can help us
get through difficult times?
One way is by examining how Jehovah provides for his animal creation.
Now why is that helpful?
Well that examination gives us confidence that he will care for us as well.
As an example in the following video, note how Jehovah provides food for a massive sea
creature.
The largest animal alive on earth today is also the largest that has ever lived.
The blue whale, blue whales can grow to be over 30 meters long and weigh up to 180 tons.
Its heart alone may weigh several hundred kilograms.
How does such a large creature find enough to eat?
The blue whale migrates great distances to find tiny crustaceans, known as krill.
When a blue whale finds a school of krill, it accelerates towards the krill and opens its
giant mouth.
The main gulf hundreds of kilograms of krill with each lunge, amounting to several tons
per day.
The blue whales eat a lot, yet Jehovah provides for them and he will provide for us.
There is the sea, so great and wide, teeming with countless living things, both small and
great.
Now we are amazed at the way Jehovah provides for all of his animal creation, including
the sea creatures.
The Bible describes this well if you look at Psalm 104, verses 27 and 28.
All of them wait for you to give them their food in its season.
What you give them, they gather.
When you open your hand, they are satisfied with good things.
Yes, meditating on this aspect of creation builds our faith.
For example, from the video, do you remember the size of this creature?
Now can you imagine if you have the assignment to feed just one blue whale?
You just make sure that one whale has enough to eat every day.
Can you imagine that?
Where would we start?
We'd have to hire teams of people, figure out how to get the food and how to move the
food to where the blue whale is swimming.
After we figure out where he's swimming, why it would be a full-time job?
And that would be to feed just one whale and this thousand of them.
And yet, Jehovah has it all arranged day after day, we don't even think about it.
You notice in verse 27, it says that all of them wait for Jehovah to give them their
food.
Now, it doesn't mean that the whale just kind of floats on the top of the water and
waits for food to jump in his mouth.
Now, it swims, it looks for the food when it finds it, it goes after it, but Jehovah
provides it.
Verse 28, it says, what he gives them, they gather.
Now, you cannot imagine that blue whale thinking, come on, really, I'm 180 tons and you're
going to feed me with a little crustacean.
Couldn't we have just worked out that I eat a couple big tuna every day?
No, they gather what Jehovah gives them.
And verse 28 goes on to say they are satisfied with Jehovah's provisions.
So what's the point?
Well, did you notice the comment in the video?
It said, Jehovah provides for them and he will provide for us.
See, meditating on creation can build our faith, strengthen our faith in Jehovah's
support.
Note the four lessons that we learn from how Jehovah cares for his creation.
The first is is that if Jehovah has the desire to care for animals and
provide for their needs, do you think that Jehovah has the desire to care for you and
your family?
Remember what Jesus expressed in Matthew, chapter 6, verse 26, where there he explained
how Jehovah cares for his creation, even the small birds.
And he said, are you not worth more than they are?
Yes, if Jehovah feels compelled to care for his animal creation, we can be assured that
he feels compelled to care for you and your family.
A second lesson is that we do not need to be unduly anxious about tomorrow.
Rather, we can confidently ask Jehovah for our daily needs.
Look at Matthew, chapter 6, verse 31 and 32.
Matthew 6, 31 and 32.
This is so never be anxious and say, what are we to eat or what are we to drink or what
are we to wear?
For all these are the things the nations are eagerly pursuing.
Your Heavenly Father knows that you need all these things.
Yes, Jehovah knows we need them.
He knows exactly what we need and he promises to provide it.
And if Jehovah has the capacity to feed a 180 ton blue whale, do you think he has the
capacity to feed you and me and our families?
Absolutely.
See, we do the best that we can and then we trust in Jehovah to do the rest.
And like it mentioned there in Psalms with the animal creation, we wait on Jehovah and
we are satisfied with what he provides.
Our third point is that Jehovah will not abandon us when we face trials.
Look at Hebrews chapter 13 and the latter part of verse 5.
Hebrews 13 5, he says, I will never leave you and I will never abandon you.
Jehovah will never abandon us.
He will care for us even through our hard times.
Now how can that help us?
All that can help us to make good decisions, good decisions regarding our employment,
care for our family, worship of Jehovah.
We will remember Jesus words in Matthew chapter 6, verse 33, where he says, seek first
the kingdom and all these other things will be given to you.
And finally, our fourth point.
Jehovah promises that he will abundantly care for all of our needs in the future.
We think of that beautiful promise in Isaiah chapter 65 and verse 22, where it says, for
the days of my people will be like the days of a tree.
Now the blue whale is thought to live 80 to 90 years.
And Jehovah keeps providing for it.
He does not have a limited supplier provision.
Well, that gives us confidence that it's not beyond Jehovah's ability to fulfill his
promise and care for us through all eternity.
So yes, Jehovah's word and his creation give us irrefutable proof of his constant loving
care.
Proof that he cares for us today, that he will care for us through our difficult days
and proof that he will care for us through all eternity.
So may all of us continue to build our faith, fortify our trust in Jehovah, become powerful
by faith.
We need that faith now and we most definitely will need it to face what is to come.
Now brother Ron Kerzen, a helper to the teaching committee, will present the final talk of
this symposium, use creation to build your faith, our bodies.
Are you tired of being tired?
Are you sick of being sick?
Many of us are feeling the impact of living in this old system of things, but what can we
do?
Well, we try to improve our health or find some relief by medical means or improving our
diet, exercise and getting more rest.
But the bottom line is, we are infected with sin and with sin comes sickness and the effects
of aging.
There's promise after promise, but are they really true?
There is no pill, medicine, diet or exercise program that can give us complete relief, removal
of sickness or what we really want and what we need, perfect health.
But there is a promise recorded in God's word that does give us confidence.
Let's read this together at Isaiah chapter 33, Isaiah 33, and notice the reassuring words
from Jehovah through the prophet Isaiah in verse 24.
And there it says, and no resident, no one will say, I am sick.
The people dwelling in the land will be pardoned for their error.
So sin will be removed in God's new world.
Do you believe that?
Can we really put faith in Jehovah's promise?
Yes, this is not just another empty promise by a human.
This comes from our creator, Jehovah.
Yes, he can guarantee it.
But what can we do today to build up our faith in those promises?
Well, as highlighted in this symposium, we can take the time and stop to look at Jehovah's
creation.
So let's do that right now.
Let's examine the human body and its amazing ability to repair itself.
Please watch the following video.
Our bones are amazing.
They support our bodies, protect our organs, and store almost all of the bodies calcium,
a mineral essential for our health.
For their weight, bones are very strong.
The feats of a track and field jumper may experience forces of several times his body
weight.
Bones can compress and bend, but sometimes they break.
A fractured bone can heal well, if properly said.
Inflination brings organic building blocks to the area, and soft tissue grows between
the broken pieces.
The soft tissue is replaced with harder tissue.
The body replaces the harder tissue with new bone, until the repair is complete.
In children, the break may heal without leaving a trace.
Jehovah gave every bone in our body this incredible ability to heal.
I praise you because in an awe-inspiring way, I am wonderfully made.
Well, that was an amazing video.
We learned a lot about what happens on the inside.
We take it for granted that when we get a cut, broken bone, that our body automatically
heals itself.
King David was very impressed with the way that he was made and the way the human body
works.
But he did not have the modern technology and knowledge that we have today, an X-ray
machine, or a microscope, but he observed Jehovah's creation.
And he knew that we were designed in an awe-inspiring way.
Let's read what he says at Psalm 139, Psalm 139 and verse 14.
I'm sure you feel the same way.
He says, I praise you because in an awe-inspiring way, I am wonderfully made.
Your works are wonderful.
I know this very well.
So what helped David to build a strong faith in Jehovah and his promises for the future?
Well, did you read there?
He says, I know this very well.
David took the time to stop and observe Jehovah's creations.
That's what helped him to put faith in Jehovah.
Yes, he took the time, not to be distracted by other things going around him, but to observe
Jehovah's creations.
That's what inspired him, and that's what motivated him to give praise to Jehovah.
And we need to do the same.
Yes, we are far from the perfect health and life that Jehovah had intended for the future.
But even so, we are made in an awe-inspiring way.
Jehovah wants us to continue living, it's plain to see.
And as we saw in the video, our bodies are amazing that they can continue to repair themselves
even without a conscious thought.
But they're in lies the problem.
We could be so busy with our lives that we don't stop and take that time to have a thought.
Why did Jehovah make this?
Why did he create me the way he did?
Yes, we're busy thinking about how we'll care for our families, pay the bills, or maybe
take care of our health.
But like David, we need to stop, pause, think deeply about what Jehovah has made.
People miss out on an opportunity to be inspired like David with all the inspiring creations
around us.
And think about this, if Jehovah could create our bodies with the ability to repair themselves
like we saw in the video, he can certainly heal all infirmities.
He can reverse the aging process, and he can prevent sickness in his new world.
While on earth, Jesus proved with the power he was given from Jehovah that he could cure
every sort of disease and every sort of infirmity.
Every sort meant everything from healing the blind, the lame, those with epilepsy, leprosy,
to raising the dead to life.
That truly is an amazing thing to ponder.
Now that must have been an amazing thing to see back then, but what Jesus did was just
a preview on a small scale of what he will do in the future worldwide on a large scale
under God's kingdom arrangement during the millennium.
We will finally see that promise we read in Isaiah that no resident will say, I am sick.
Why?
Jesus will use his kingly power to bring about perfect health, yes, lasting health.
Jehovah's promises they fill us with hope, they fill us with confidence that every sort
of disease and illness, anything that we're going through now, it's only temporary knowing
that permanent, perfect health is soon to come.
This symposium has considered examples ranging from the heavens all the way to the inner
workings of our amazing bodies.
Jehovah left his imprint on all of his creations.
The evidence is clearly seen, it's evident.
What must we do today to build our faith and confidence in Jehovah's promises?
Notice what Romans chapter 1 and verse 20 has to say.
Here in verse 20, Romans 1 and verse 20, for his invisible qualities are clearly seen
from the world's creation onward, why?
Because they are perceived by the things made, even his eternal power and Godship, so that
they are inexcusable.
Let's focus in on the word perceived.
It's interesting that the study note says that perceived means more than just seeing something
with our literal eyes.
It means grasping or understanding with our mind.
One Bible translation says, God's qualities are visible to the eye of reason.
That's interesting.
So when we see Jehovah's creations, take the time like David did to stop and think deeply,
meditate on what we can learn from that creation, what it tells us about our creator, Jehovah.
It happens when we perceive Jehovah's wisdom, his power, his justice, his love and creations,
its strength is our faith and his promises now, as well as in the future.
May we always be inspired and stay inspired by Jehovah's all-inspiring creations, and
thus we will always be inspired by our Almighty God and Creator, Jehovah.
Thank you, brothers, for helping us think deeply about the things Jehovah has made and
the things he will do.
What wonderful blessings we have to look forward to!
We now invite you to sing song number 148 entitled Jehovah Provides Escape.
Again, that song number 148.